Docs refresh (#122)
openforcefield/openff-pablo: docs/book/05-resdef.Rmd

(chapter:resdef)=
# Creating custom residue definitions

Sometimes you need to create a custom residue definition. This might be when you want to augment the CCD cache with a residue of your own, or when creating your own residue library. All residue definitions are instances of the [`ResidueDefinition`] class. That class has a large number of `from_*()` methods that can be used to easily and quickly generate residue definitions.

> For ligands and single-residue molecules, the reference docs for that class might be all you need. Unfortunately, preparing residue definitions that can actually link to each other in a polymer requires a little bit more understanding.

Reviewer: Omit "Unfortunately"

This chapter will first go over the basics of how a `ResidueDefinition` encodes what information, and then will summarize the important ways to create one. Usually, the easiest way to construct a residue definition is with one of the constructor methods

## What's in a residue definition

A typical residue definition consists of the following information:

1. [`ResidueDefinition.atoms`]: A canonical name, possible synonyms, and chemical information for each atom in the residue.
2. [`ResidueDefinition.bonds`]: The bonds in the residue, specified as chemical information plus two canonical atom names that the bond is between.
3. [`ResidueDefinition.residue_name`]: A residue name, which is the identifier used in a PDB file to refer to the residue and should be 1-4 characters long.

> 4. [`ResidueDefinition.description`]: A short description of the residue, usually consisting of little more than its IUPAC name.

Reviewer 2: (not blocking)
```suggestion
4. [`ResidueDefinition.description`]: A short, cosmetic description of the residue, usually consisting of little more than its IUPAC name.
```

This information is stored in the attributes of the [`ResidueDefinition`], [`AtomDefinition`] and [`BondDefinition`] classes.

Usually, the easiest way to construct a residue definition is to use one of the [constructor methods], which we'll detail in the next section. As a result, this section won't cover every attribute in detail --- instead, we'll focus on a high-level, operational overview. But the details are in the class docstrings and can be viewed in the [API docs](openff.pablo.residue)!

### Bonds

It's usually not required to specify bonds by hand, as the constructor methods produce them automatically, and the most common linking bonds and crosslinks are specified in the [`openff.pablo.chem`] module. But there are some concepts that are shared between bonds, links, and crosslinks, so we'll briefly explain them here.

Each bond in the residue is defined by a [`BondDefinition`] object. Bonds are specified as two atom names, plus some chemical information. These atom names always refer to the canonical names of the corresponding atoms, and never to
synonyms; the canonical names act as the atom's unique identifier within the residue definition.

> The only essential chemical information in a bond definition is the bond order, an integer from 1 to 4 specifying the number of pairs of electrons involved in the bond - 1 for a single bond, 2 for a double bond, and so on. Bond aromaticity and stereochemistry may be defined, and is defined for residue definitions loaded from the CCD, but is not used by Pablo.

Reviewer 2: (not blocking) 
```suggestion
The only essential chemical information in a bond definition is the bond order, an integer from 1 to 4 specifying the number of pairs of electrons involved in the bond - 1 for a single bond, 2 for a double bond, and so on. Bond aromaticity and stereochemistry may be defined but is not used by Pablo (the the OpenFF Toolkit re-perceives aromaticity according to its preferred model, and infers stereochemistry from the 3D coordinates.
```
